# 2013SegmentatingBloodCellImages
Abstract: Acute lymphoblastic leukemia is a blood cancer that can be cured if it is detected at early stages; however, the analysis of smear blood by a human expert is tired and subject to errors. In such a sense, diagnostic of the disease is costly and
time consuming. Considering that situation, several automatic segmentation methods have been proposed, some of them containing combinations of classic image analysis tools, as thresholding, morphology, color segmentation and active contours, only to mention some. In this paper is proposed the use of Hellinger distance as an alternative to Euclidean distance in order to estimate a Gaussian functions mixture that better fits a gray-level histogram of blood cell images. Two evolutionary methods (Differential Evolution and Artificial Bee Colony) are used to perform segmentation based on histogram information and an estimator of minimum distance. The mentioned techniques are compared with classic Otsu’s method by using a qualitative measure of the resulting segmentation and ground-truth images. Experimental
results show that the three methods performed almost in a similar fashion, but the evolutionary ones evaluate almost 75 % less the objective function compared with Otsu’s. Also, was found that the use of a minimum distance estimator constructed with Hellinger distance and evolutionary techniques is robust and does not need a penalization factor as the needed when an Euclidean distance is used.
#
